okay so um this is trick or treat again
back to my project on the bella prom
twilight prom dress on the first picture
that you see here I've laid out
everything to be cut a little note about
laying out patterns multi size patterns
and and all that sort of thing or
choosing your patterns the sizes and
whatnot a lot of people don't realize
this i see this st girls making this
mistake all the time when when i'm at
the fabric store is that the dress size
that's listed on the pattern does not
correspond to the dress size that you
would wear like to feature spot close at
a store you're actually going to go
about three to four dress sizes up or
like six to eight number sizes up when
you lay this out so anyway so this is
being laid out here um the next picture
that you're going to see is where I've
laid like that the bodice part of this
is really easy but when i came to laying
out with skirt obviously the pattern
that I was choosing was like a palm
skirts is really long didn't want it to
be that long and obviously I'm not going
to need all those ruffles so I'm just
going to do the top three ruffles and
figure out where I need to cut it or I
don't want to do the three ruffles so if
it's going to ask like if it's going to
I'm going to need to do for ruffles
depending on the length of where I'm
going to need to cut this skirt for it
to fall like about knee length or so
then it means I'm either going to have
to lengthen the current the ruffles so
that only have three or I'm going to
have to use the the second third and
fourth ruffles as opposed to the first
second third I've laid it out here so
you can see kind of how that will go the
first second and third ruffles but um
later on you don't really see this I
kind of forgot to take a few production
photos along the way here but later on
actually did end up having to skip the
first ruffle and use second third and
fourth ruffles and just move them up cut
off the extra and seeing them in a
little bit on in order to have them
placed at the right like space my part
right um third photo here
just showing where I'm trying I'm trying
to keep the where I'm cutting it even
with one of the other guidelines so I
think I'm marked it like an inch away
from the guideline i just measured from
the waistband down kind of to how long i
wanted it to be from my waist down to
about like right above my knee or
something and the next to pictures there
I've just kind of marked in place are
just an inch above just taking and
actually marking on the pattern you'll
find with with multi size patterns
that's really handy if you've got one of
these markers mind that I used is double
ended its disappearing on one end and
light blue on the other you can just
mark directly on the pattern if you do
all your measuring before you actually
cut your pieces then you can follow the
guidelines on the pattern I don't always
go by the measurements in the back of
the pattern those can be a little screwy
because they do add in ease on a few
places but if you look at the finished
measurements usually that's actually
printed on the pattern piece usually add
like bus point waist point hit point
you'll see a circle that's quarter
across and that marks what the finished
measurements are going to be off at
those points so give yourself anywhere
from a normal normal eases maybe about
half an inch to an inch if you want it
to be somewhat fitted but with little
movement if you've got a fabric with a
little give you you know might go with
half an inch or less depending on what
you want just um it's not always a smart
idea to actually do it at your fitted
measurements because you won't be able
to sit down so um the next few photos
here are post production photos on the
top portion the next three photos front
back and the detail of neck um this had
options for either tynacorp I button
neck and I went with button neck don't
really want to mess up the tie don't
have the skirt on it there but as as I
go later look further down here there's
some pictures of production on the skirt
I actually did I think I mentioned
a minute ago but i actually did cut the
first second and third rofls for the
skirt and i stitched him on i actually
even just basted it to the top portion
of the dress and tried it on it was not
happy with it the ruffles were spaced
too closely together I felt and the
skirt came a little higher than I wanted
it to I felt like the dress that I was
trying to copy the bottom ruffle seemed
like it was about tea length which is
just maybe at calf or just above calf
below the knee that's kind of where I
wanted it to come I wanted him to fall a
little more slimly to felt like the
skirt flared more than I wanted it to it
was just very very 50s looking to me
we're very hourglass type of shape and I
wanted it to fall a little bit more slim
so as you can kind of see in one of the
photos there I've had to stitch away
from my original stitching stitch it in
and anywhere from from an eighth of an
inch all the way down to maybe about an
inch by the time I got to the end of the
hem to try to slim the skirt out a
little bit you've probably seen that
picture where there's some threads loose
where I had to rip out the ruffles I
take them all back off and of course
then use the second third and fourth
rofls instead of the first one so on the
next picture there is where I've
actually stitched some stay stitching at
the stitching line on the ruffles and
then decided to clip it and fold it back
with an iron as opposed to arm putting
right sides together and stitching it
and then folding it down ironing it flat
and then stitching it again on the top
side that was a lot of work and it's
hard to actually see where you're
placing the ruffle you have to just have
marked it really well so what I did
instead was just on the second time
around with the ruffles was just folded
down iron it flat so that i could put
wrong side to right side and actually
lay it out the way you would actually
see it when I was pinning it so it was a
lot easier to control exactly where I
was pinning it I also used um not shown
here but i also used a measuring tape to
measure from the top of the skirt down
to where i was actually pinning the
lowest ruffle and keep that uniform all
the
skirt I did that again with a second
rough one of course the the first ruffle
at the top um just aligns with the the
same edge so last two pictures there are
obviously post-production on the dress I
think I may be still a little hemming to
do but you can reach out and then me in
the rest so that's it and I felt like it
went pretty easily i probably would have
it took me i think i started on on
monday of the week that i started it and
i finished it up like saturday morning
mostly finished up friday and i think
had to do like some some clipping little
extra stitching or something like that
on saturday morning probably would have
actually gotten it done on wednesday if
i hadn't decided to alter the skirt and
rip all the ruffles back out so um it
went pretty quickly it's pretty easy
pattern to do and it wasn't hard to
combine the two the two patterns so
anyway that's just sort of in a nutshell
one project and hopefully i'll be back
again with another project i currently
have about i think three star wars
costumes in progress that have just sort
of left off with I kind of tend to start
projects and not finish them so maybe
I'll get back to that one and document
the end and our so